Centipede
=========

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

You are an elf and must use your magic wands to fend off spiders, fleas
and centipedes. Your goal is to protect mushrooms in an enchanted
forest. If you are bitten by a spider, flea or centipede, you will be
temporally paralyzed and you will lose a magic wand. The game ends once
you have lost all wands. You may receive additional wands after scoring
a sufficient number of points. Detailed documentation can be found on
`the AtariAge
page <https://atariage.com/manual_html_page.php?SoftwareID=911>`__.

Actions
~~~~~~~

By default, all actions that can be performed on an Atari 2600 are
available in this environment. Even if you use v0 or v4 or specify
``full_action_space=False`` during initialization, all actions will be
available in the default flavor.

Observations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, the environment returns the RGB image that is displayed to
human players as an observation. However, it is possible to observe -
The 128 Bytes of RAM of the console - A grayscale image

instead. The respective observation spaces are -
``Box([0 ... 0], [255 ... 255], (128,), uint8)`` -
``Box([[0 ... 0]  ...  [0  ... 0]], [[255 ... 255]  ...  [255  ... 255]], (210, 160), uint8)``

respectively. The general article on Atari environments outlines
different ways to instantiate corresponding environments via
``gym.make``.

Rewards
~~~~~~~

You score points by hitting centipedes, scorpions, fleas and spiders.
Additional points are awarded after every round (i.e. after you have
lost a wand) for mushrooms that were not destroyed. Detailed
documentation can be found on `the AtariAge
page <https://atariage.com/manual_html_page.php?SoftwareID=815>`__.

Arguments
~~~~~~~~~

::

   env = gym.make("ALE/Centipede-v5")

The various ways to configure the environment are described in detail in
the article on Atari environments. It is possible to specify various
flavors of the environment via the keyword arguments ``difficulty`` and
``mode``. A flavor is a combination of a game mode and a difficulty
setting.

+----+------------------------------------------------------+-----+---+
| E  | Valid Modes                                          | Va  | D |
| nv |                                                      | lid | e |
| ir |                                                      | Dif | f |
| on |                                                      | fic | a |
| me |                                                      | ult | u |
| nt |                                                      | ies | l |
|    |                                                      |     | t |
|    |                                                      |     | M |
|    |                                                      |     | o |
|    |                                                      |     | d |
|    |                                                      |     | e |
+====+======================================================+=====+===+
| C  | ``[22, 86]``                                         | `   | ` |
| en |                                                      | `[0 | ` |
| ti |                                                      | ]`` | 2 |
| pe |                                                      |     | 2 |
| de |                                                      |     | ` |
|    |                                                      |     | ` |
+----+------------------------------------------------------+-----+---+

You may use the suffix “-ram” to switch to the RAM observation space. In
v0 and v4, the suffixes “Deterministic” and “Noframeskip” are available.
These are no longer supported in v5. In order to obtain equivalent
behavior, pass keyword arguments to ``gym.make`` as outlined in the
general article on Atari environments. The versions v0 and v4 are not
contained in the “ALE” namespace. I.e. they are instantiated via
``gym.make("Centipede-v0")``.

Version History
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A thorough discussion of the intricate differences between the versions
and configurations can be found in the general article on Atari
environments.

-  v5: Stickiness was added back and stochastic frameskipping was
   removed. The entire action space is used by default. The environments
   are now in the “ALE” namespace.
-  v4: Stickiness of actions was removed
-  v0: Initial versions release (1.0.0)
